#summary Rules and instructions for project members/committers.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Code & Commits =
Primary repository located here: https://github.com/undera/jmeter-plugins
Every change must be noted in [Roadmap] immediately after commit to track progress and mention changes in [Changelog] on release. See also [BuildingFromSource]

= Unit Tests =
Committed code must be covered with unit tests. This practice helps us to maintain some quality level and avoid stupid bugs like NPEs in GUI.

= GUI & Usability =
There is strong tradition for the project to be convinient and obvious for users. That's come from our slogan. Every GUI should be designed carefully.

Every plugin having GUI must have hyperlink to wiki and version mention.

Please check also the [PluginsGuiGuidelines]


= Documentation =
Project wiki pages are either edited via Google Code web interface, or using wiki SVN https://jmeter-plugins.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/.

Wiki pages should have screenshots demonstrating component GUI.

There may not be undocumented features.


= Example Test Plans =
It is good practice to provide an example test plan for complex and not too obvious components. Usually it is a JMX Test Plan file with instructions in comment fields. The example should be self-containing as much as possible, using Dummy Samplers to have predictable results. Take a look at existing example test plans to have idea how it should look like.

Example test plans are committed into old SVN repository here: https://jmeter-plugins.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/examples/
Don't forget to set mime-type for JMX files to {{{application/octet-stream}}}, this is needed to force browsers to download JMX when user clicks a hyperlink.

= Release Process =
  # Edit pom.xml and set version name to version releasing
  # do mvn clean package
  # upload plugins zip and libs zip to downloads, remove prev release from featured
  # move changes list from [Roadmap] to [Changelog]
  # edit homepage: latest version info, download links, plugins list with NEW tags
  # edit [Sidebar] download link
  # announce release:
    * project mailing list
    * twitter link to mailing list announce
    * linkedIn jmeter group
    * software-testing.ru forum (for Russian users)
    * jmeter mailing list (if important enough release)
  # publish maven artifacts (do mvn sign:sign), maybe after a while to prevent buggy artifacts