<div style="float: right" class="plugins_set standard_set">Available in [StandardSet Standard Set]</div>
= Custom JMeter Functions =

In addition to standard [http://jakarta.apache.org/jmeter/usermanual/functions.html JMeter functions] we provide:

== chooseRandom<sup><font color=gray size="1">since 1.0.1</font></sup> ==

This function choose single random value from the list of its arguments. The 
last argument is not taken into choice, it is interpreted as variable name
to store the result.

Parameters:
  # First value to choose from
  # Second value to choose from
  # ... any number of further choices ...
  # Mandatory variable to store result

Example, choosing random color and assigning it to randomColor variable:

{{{
${__chooseRandom(red,green,blue,orange,violet,magenta,randomColor)}
}}}

== doubleSum<sup><font color=gray size="1">since 0.4.2</font></sup> ==

This function used to compute the sum of two or more floating point values.

Parameters:
  # First value to sum - required
  # Second value to sim - required
  # More values to sum - optional
  # Last argument - variable name to store the result

Example, returning 8.3 and also saving it to variable {{{sumVariable}}}:

{{{
${__doubleSum(3.5, 4.7, sumVariable)}
}}}

== env<sup><font color=gray size="1">since 1.1.4</font></sup> ==

This function used to get a value of environment variable. 
Returns value of environment variable if variable was defined, variable name instead (or default value) .

Parameters:
  # First value is a name of environment variable - required
  # Second argument - variable name to store the result - optional
  # Third argument - default value if environment variable is not set - optional

Example, returning value of ENV_VAR and also saving it to variable someVariable (or defaultValue if ENV_VAR is not set):

{{{
${__env(ENV_VAR, someVariable, defaultValue)}
}}}

== isDefined<sup><font color=gray size="1">since 0.4.2</font></sup> ==

This function used to determine if variable was already defined. 
Returns 1 if variable was defined, 0 instead.

Parameters:
  # First value is string constant, variable, or function call - required

Example, getting defined status for variable name 'testVar':

{{{
${__isDefined(testVar)}
}}}

== MD5<sup><font color=gray size="1">since 0.4.2</font></sup> ==

This function used to calculate MD5 hash of constant string or variable value.

Parameters:
  # First value is string constant, variable, or function call - required
  # Second argument - variable name to store the result

Example, calculating MD5 for 'test':

{{{
${__MD5(test)}
}}}

== strLen<sup><font color=gray size="1">since 0.4.2</font></sup> ==

This function used to compute the length of constant string or variable value.

Parameters:
  # First value is string constant, variable, or function call - required
  # Second argument - variable name to store the result

Example, returning 11 and also saving it to variable {{{lenVariable}}}:

{{{
${__strLen(test string, lenVariable)}
}}}

Example, returning length of variable {{{varName}}}:

{{{
${__strLen(${varName})}
}}}

== uppercase and lowercase<sup><font color=gray size="1">since 0.4.2</font></sup> ==

This functions used to transform the case of constant string or variable value.

Parameters:
  # First value is string constant, variable, or function call - required
  # Second argument - variable name to store the result

Example, transforming 'test' into 'TEST' and also saving it to variable {{{someVariable}}}:

{{{
${__uppercase(test, someVariable)}
}}}

== substring<sup><font color=gray size="1">since 0.4.2</font></sup> ==

This function is wrapper for Java [http://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/lang/String.html?is-external=true#substring String.substring] method.

Parameters:
  # First value is string constant, variable, or function call - required
  # Begin index
  # End index
  # Optional variable to store result

Example, getting 'str' from 'test string':

{{{
${__substring(test string, 5, 8)}
}}}

