= JMeterPluginsCMD Command Line Tool =

<span class=''>[/?search=jpgc-cmd <i class='fa fa-download'></i> Download]</span>

There is small command-line utility for generating graphs out of JTL files. It behave just like right-click context menu on all graphs. The tool can generate PNG, CSV or both.

Note you can use [GraphsGeneratorListener] if you want to bulk generate graphs after a test or for existing results.

== Installation ==

The tool is installed normally with [PluginsManager], producing launcher bat/sh files in JMeter's {{{bin}}} directory. Use {{{JMeterPluginsCMD.bat}}} on Windows and {{{JMeterPluginsCMD.sh}}} on MacOS and Linux.

== Usage and Parameters ==

Generating PNG:

{{{
JMeterPluginsCMD.bat --generate-png test.png --input-jtl results.jtl --plugin-type ResponseTimesOverTime --width 800 --height 600
}}}

Generating CSV:

{{{
JMeterPluginsCMD.bat --generate-csv test.csv --input-jtl results.jtl --plugin-type ResponseTimesOverTime
}}}

Yoy may generate CSV and PNG in single tool run. {{{--help}}} will show you short help list on available parameters.

|| {{{--generate-png <file>}}} || generate PNG file containing graph ||
|| {{{--generate-csv <file>}}} || generate CSV file containing graph data ||
|| {{{--input-jtl <file>}}} || load data from specified JTL file ||
|| {{{--plugin-type <class>}}} || which type of graph use for results generation ||

Use {{{--input-jtl merge-results.properties}}} with {{{--plugin-type MergeResults}}}. The merge-results.properties file is in JMETER_HOME/bin dir.

You may customize graph drawing and data processing
like [SettingsPanel GUI settings] do with optional parameters:

|| {{{--width <pixels>}}} || for PNG only - width of the image, default is 800 ||
|| {{{--height <pixels>}}} || for PNG only - height of the image, default is 600 ||
|| {{{--granulation <ms>}}} || granulation time for samples ||
|| {{{--relative-times <yes/no>}}} || use relative X axis times, _no_ will set absolute times ||
|| {{{--aggregate-rows <yes/no>}}} || aggregate all rows into one ||
|| {{{--paint-gradient <yes/no>}}} || paint gradient background ||
|| {{{--paint-zeroing <yes/no>}}} || paint zeroing lines ||
|| {{{--paint-markers <yes/no>}}} || paint markers on data points (since 1.1.3) ||
|| {{{--prevent-outliers <yes/no>}}} || prevent outliers on distribution graph ||
|| {{{--limit-rows <num of points>}}} || limit number of points in row ||
|| {{{--force-y <limit>}}} || force Y axis limit ||
|| {{{--hide-low-counts <limit>}}} || hide points with sample count below limit ||
|| {{{--success-filter <true/false>}}} || filter samples by success flag (since 0.5.6), possible values are true, false, if not set no filtering on success flag will occur ||
|| {{{--include-labels <labels list>}}} || include in report only samples with specified labels, comma-separated ||
|| {{{--exclude-labels <labels list>}}} || exclude from report samples with specified labels, comma-separated ||
|| {{{--auto-scale <yes/no>}}} || enable/disable auto-scale multipliers for perfmon/composite graph ||
|| {{{--line-weight <num of pixels>}}} || line thickness for graph rows ||
|| {{{--extractor-regexps <regExps list>}}} || list of keyRegExp and valRegExp pairs separated with {;}, only used by PageDataExtractorOverTime ||
|| {{{--include-label-regex <true/false>}}} || include samples using regular expression ||
|| {{{--exclude-label-regex <true/false>}}} || exclude samples using regular expression ||
|| {{{--start-offset <sec>}}} || include in report only samples with (timestamp - relativeStartTime) > startOffset ||
|| {{{--end-offset <sec>}}} || include in report only samples with (timestamp - relativeStartTime) < endOffset ||

== Plugin Type Classes ==
Make note that you need to install corresponding plugins set to have Extras plugins available in CMD.

Most of class names are self-explanatory:

  * AggregateReport = JMeter's native Aggregate Report, can be saved only as CSV
  * SynthesisReport = mix between JMeter's native Summary Report and Aggregate Report, can be saved only as CSV
  * ThreadsStateOverTime = Active Threads Over Time
  * BytesThroughputOverTime
  * HitsPerSecond
  * LatenciesOverTime
  * PerfMon = [PerfMon] Metrics Collector
  * DbMon = [DbMon] Metrics Collector, DataBase, get performance counters via sql
  * JMXMon = [JMXMon] Metrics Collector, Java Management Extensions counters
  * ResponseCodesPerSecond
  * ResponseTimesDistribution
  * ResponseTimesOverTime
  * ResponseTimesPercentiles
  * ThroughputVsThreads
  * TimesVsThreads = Response Times VS Threads
  * TransactionsPerSecond
  * PageDataExtractorOverTime
  * MergeResults = [MergeResults] Command Line Merge Tool to simplify the comparison of two or more load tests, need properties file (like merge-results.properties)
