= Plugins Manager from Command-Line =

If you want to use [PluginsManager JMeter Plugins Manager] in an automated fashion, you will need to make some preparations first:

  # make sure {{{cmdrunner-2.0.jar}}} is present in {{{jmeter/lib}}} directory. If not, take it from here: http://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=kg/apc/cmdrunner/2.0/cmdrunner-2.0.jar
  # make sure {{{PluginsManagerCMD.sh}}} or {{{PluginsManagerCMD.bat}}} is present in {{{jmeter/bin}}} directory. If not, run {{{java -cp jmeter/lib/ext/jmeter-plugins-manager-x.x.jar org.jmeterplugins.repository.PluginManagerCMDInstaller}}} to have the files created

Now, you can use {{{PluginsManagerCMD}}} to get the status of plugins, install or uninstall them. The command-line is simple:

{{{
PluginsManagerCMD &lt;command&gt; [&lt;params&gt;]
}}}

Where {{{command}}} is one of "help", "status", "upgrades", "available", "install", "install-all-except", "install-for-jmx", "uninstall".
{{{params}}} is a string with plugin IDs, comma-separated, like this: {{{jpgc-cmd,jpgc-json,jpgc-casutg}}}. No spaces allowed currently. If you want to specify exact versions for plugins, do it like this: {{{jpgc-json=2.2,jpgc-casutg=2.0}}}. For {{{install-for-jmx}}} command you should specified path to your jmx file.

Example usages:

{{{
PluginsManagerCMD help
PluginsManagerCMD status
PluginsManagerCMD upgrades
PluginsManagerCMD available
PluginsManagerCMD install jpgc-fifo,jpgc-json=2.2
PluginsManagerCMD install-all-except jpgc-casutg,jpgc-autostop
PluginsManagerCMD uninstall jmeter-tcp,jmeter-ftp,jmeter-jdbc
PluginsManagerCMD install-for-jmx /home/username/jmx/testPlan.jmx
}}}


To use proxy with command line, please use {{{JVM_ARGS}}} environment variable to set proxy properties, like this:

{{{
JVM_ARGS="-Dhttps.proxyHost=myproxy.com -Dhttps.proxyPort=8080" PluginsManagerCMD status
}}}

If you need username/proxy for proxy, pass them like this:
{{{
JVM_ARGS="-Dhttps.proxyHost=myproxy.com -Dhttps.proxyPort=8080 -Dhttp.proxyUser=john -Dhttp.proxyPass=***" PluginsManagerCMD status
}}}


== Using from BeanShell or JSR223 ==


If you need to access the plugins versions information from scriptable components like BeanShell sampler, please use these two methods:


=== Single Plugin Info ===


Request for single plugin version, returns version string if plugin is installed, or null if plugin is not installed:


{{{
org.jmeterplugins.repository.PluginManager.getPluginStatus("jpgc-graphs-basic")
}}}

Example result of this function call is string like {{{1.3.0}}}.

=== All Plugins Info ===

Returns a string containing plugin IDs with corresponding versions. Only the installed plugins are listed.

{{{
org.jmeterplugins.repository.PluginManager.getAllPluginsStatus()
}}}

Example result of this function call is string like {{{[jpgc-graphs-basic=1.3.1, jpgc-sense=1.3.1, jpgc-cmd=1.3.1, jpgc-graphs-composite=1.3.1, jmeter-core=2.13, jmeter-components=2.13]}}}.
